step number one factorize step number
two find the limits the limits means
just solve it as normal but you don't
actually say these are your answers
these are called the limits okay these
are called the limits they're your
limits once you do find your limits
number three
sketch
graph okay and the sketching of a graph
is a skill of itself there you draw this
minus 2 goes there three goes there and
then you decide on the shape okay you
decide on the shape so decide
shape so if you if you got X squ then
it's going to
be a positive graph if you've got a
negative
X2 then it's going to be a upside di
graph all right so here can you see you
got an x squ a positive X squ so your
graph is going to look like that all
right your graph is going to look look
like that okay that's number three step
number
four step number four after you've done
that is you need to go back to the
original thing and you're looking for
whether y if it's less than zero or Y is
greater than zero that's what you're
looking for and you just go back up to
the original thing up here and see this
so you this is going to be equal to Y
because any equation x² + equals to y so
your one you have this less than zero so
here you have less than zero if it's
less than zero if you go to any graph if
you go to any graph this is your y- AIS
right these are the values of Y along
here along here you have the values of Y
all of the Y values here are positive
all of the Y values under here are
negative so less than zero would mean
it's below this axis here it's below
that so here I will go here and
highlight it it's this part of the graph
I'm interested in all right because this
part is above zero all right we'll look
at an example of this next where we have
this okay so because it's between it's
continuous between those 3 and minus 2
we just say X our answer is less than
three and greater than minus 2 and that
is the answer the solutions to this
inequality okay for this in inequality
to exist the values of X must be greater
than minus 2 and less than three all
right now I'm just going to quickly show
you what would have happened if it was
another type of graph okay if well I'll
actually use the same
equation x^2 - x - 6 but I'm going to do
greater than zero can you see I've
change the sign okay it's greater than
zero now I going to do okay now I'm
going to do step number one factorize as
normal I'm going to do finding the
limits and I'm going to sketch the graph
okay I'm going to do all of that the
same so that is basically this graph
right here okay so I'm going to just do
that all over again
but obviously I've done it up there so I
don't need to repeat
stuff there however this
time it's Y is greater than zero so the
Y values greater than zero are up here
so it means this part of the graph here
and this part of the graph here is what
I want so I'm just going to label it
here now watch this this is the one that
people
normally struggle a little bit with okay
this part of the graph is when the
values of X are greater than
three yeah so look for example like four
will go up there and give me a value
here give me a value of y which is
greater than zero likewise on this side
here these part like anything greater
anything less than or smaller than min-2
also gives me values of Y that will hit
that graph here and and give me y values
greater than zero so for this particular
part if it was greater than zero the
same equation I want this part of the
graph and that part of the graph which
means I want values of X which are
greater than three or so it's not
continuous or X
values less than minus
2 you see I've got two different
inequalities here and that's how you do
that all right now there's one more just
to give you a comprehensive thing if I
have a negative X values you can start
on whichever one is less than a half or
X is greater than four and they are your
inequalities and that is how you do the
quadratic
inequalities any questions